So we want user images next to the chat messages, and to avoid that, we have to send thousands of
requests to the users collection for thousands of messages potentially.
I will also make sure to store a link where you are held to the image next to the message it belongs
to for the same reason I stored a username there.
Now, of course, if you have an app where users are allowed to edit their name or their image, that
might not be the best solution because you might have to update all those existing messages or you have
to take a different route where you fetched a brand new data from the user's collection for every message.
But here, where does updating functionality is not possible?
This definitely is a great approach to minimize the amount of requests being sent.
Hence, it's not a new message widget where we send a new message where I now don't just want to store
the user name, but also, let's say a user image field here in the document besides the text of the
message.
And here we want to take the well image you are of the user.
Now, the good thing is we are already fetching data from the users collection here.
That's where we get the user name from so we can use that same user data to get access to the image
you URL because in the users collection we have that image you URL field here so I can just access image.
You are out here to get access to it yourself and store it on every message that's being sent.
Now, with that out of the way, here is the app running on my Android emulator, but here you can see
it running on my real iPhone.
And if I now type hello here.
As a message and I sent this, you see it pop up on the left, too, which is how it should work, and
that's not where I want to also show the image of the user.
Now, if we quickly check Firebase in our collections here, if I reload this collections page, we
hopefully see that on our message.
In the chat collection, we also have the user.
Image, you are all being stored and that's not the case here.
Simply because I didn't update my real device with the latest version of that app, of course, my bad.
Let me quickly do that off screen.
So now the latest version is running, let me now try this again.
Hello.
So now here in this chat document, we see the user image.
So this is not working.
Now, a link to the image is being stored side by side to every message.
And with that, let's not output the image next to every chat message bubble to now for this URL.
First of all, create a new user also here on the Android account.
A different user, of course, with my dummy emulator image, which is good enough.
And now we at least have two users that can communicate with each other.
So now the goal is to show that user image next to the message bubble.
Now we're storing the image as part of a message, which is great.
That means we can pass that data to our message bubble constructor here in the messages widget.
We're already passing in the username.
Now we can just pass in the image you URL or as a name ID here, user image, actually, user image.
Now we can just pass this to message bubble and in message bubble.
We now of course, need to accept this extra parameter.
So here in message bubble in its constructor.
After a username, maybe I also want to store to use user image, but of course now we need a property
of that name and that should be of type string because the image will just be a u r l..
In the end, it's a u r l..
Which is a string.
Cue that image.
So now we're able to receive that image here in the message bubble and by the way, we can clear this
import here now that you see it.
And with that image received, we can now output it.
Now, how are you one outputted is, of course, totally up to you.
I will go for an approach where I will wrap this entire row into a number of widget, into a stack widget
and to stack widget takes some children which are organized in an array and which will be laid out on
top of each other, basically.
So if I just wrap this row here now like this, not much should change.
We still see our message as it looked before, but now we can add a new widget which will be on top
of the row in a three dimensional way.
I mean, so here we could now add a circle avatar again to have a rounded image.
And if I add this year, you see this is now on top or actually below it because the stack is organized
such that the further down you are in this children are, the more on top.
This will be visually.
So we can simply move Avatar down after row here and now it will be on top of the row.
And of course, that is roughly what I want, but not exactly.
I want to have it a bit more outside of this chat bubble.
And to achieve this, we can use a number of widget with which I wrapped the circle Avatar and that's
dispositioned widget.
The positioned widget is designed with the stack widget in mind, which means the positioned widget
helps us to position our widgets.
The child of positioned, to be precise, inside of a stack.
Now, I'm not talking about the three dimensional positioning for Dad.
You just have to order your elements correctly in the stack children.
But I'm talking about the two dimensional positioning.
So, for example, that these circles should be further above the message bubble or further on the right.
And for that position has a couple of helpful arguments.
Precisely.
It has bottom, left, right and top.
And for example, here, if I set top to zero and right to zero, it will move to circle Avatar in the
top right corner.
Now, of course, here we see that it takes the entire width of that widget, which is the entire row.
And not just the width of this container in which I have my column with the chat messages now, there
are various ways of fixing that.
And one of the easiest is that we simply said left instead of right, but not to zero, but for example,
to 140.
And now we move to circle one hundred and forty pixels from the left.
And this doesn't look too bad.
I think it should be a bit further above the message bubble, though, and for that we can actually
even set a negative top here, for example, 30.
Now what you'll notice is that this now is clipped into a white that happens.
You go to your stack widget and there you can see that overflow to overload, not visible.
So the overflow argument on the stack widget, now you can fully see that.
Now, it's a bit too much above the chat bubble, so maybe minus 10 works out better and also a little
bit further to the left would be nice.
So maybe one hundred and twenty and you can play around with that to position it in the way you want
to position it.
I think this doesn't look too shabby, though.
And with it, of course, the goal is to show the image and not just some colorful background video.
Again, we can set the background image, which you already learned once at image provider.
Now, we previously saw the image provider for a file image.
Now we basically have a network image.
We have a you are able to image on some server.
And for that there is a dedicated provider and that's the network image provider.
And this provider network image simply wants a link.
You are to that image.
And here I will simply use.
The user image property, which Holstead image.
So here we have user image.
And with this, you see the image here for this user who posted this image.
And that's exactly the look I want, and if I, for example, answer here, you also see it on my post.
Now, of course, it's positioned correctly because we always position it basically the top right corner.
Now, that is the positioning we want for our messages, but not for our own messages, because our
own messages show up on the right, not on the left.
Now, for that we got that useful is my property, which is a boolean that basically tells us whoever
does as opposed by us or not.
And we can use this to fine tune the positioning.
The top positioning is always fine.
But if this is us, if this is me, I don't want to have left one hundred and twenty instead, then
I probably don't want to positioned is from the left side at all so we can set this to null here.
Now, of course, I want to position it, though, but from the right side, so therefore we can add
right.
And if this is me, I want to use one hundred and twenty from the right here and now, otherwise, which
is the not my case.
So now you see its position correctly, both if that's me, as well as when it's the average user.
So now we can type here and send more messages and ultimately add more and more messages with our extra
image.
Now you also see a little glitch here when we have multiple messages.
So maybe we should have a little bit more spacing between our messages.
And that's something we can all to configure here in the message bubble, because, dear, we get this
container.
And we set up some margin around.
Our message is already maybe we should use 10 here.
Now, there is more spacing available, maybe actually 16 on the vertical axis and now this looks way
better.
And you can also see, of course, that this is scrollable in case it should exceed the boundaries of
our screen, so that looks good.
Now we're rendering the messages here with our user image.
Because of the margin, actually, the image is now not positioned perfectly anymore.
Let me fix this by setting top to zero again.
Yeah, so this now looks great.
This is now the final state and want to have your with that.
We got the authentication.
We got the chat, we get the images.
Now, of course, there's just one thing missing and that would be the push notifications.